# UI - Adapter Integration

## Overview
Our UI was done using Ionic 1 and is located in the MotoCorpService/Lab/MotoScaffold/MotoCorpService directory. In this lab, you will integrate the UI with the Mobile Foundation adapters which talks to the CRM nodejs backend.

# Structure of the App

Ionic uses what they call **views** and **controllers** to configure how your app looks and functions.

The **views** are the html files which governs how your app will look.

The **controllers** are the javascipt files which tell your corresponding view how to function. We pair each view with its own controller to abstract it from other segments and make it easier to read and understand.

In Ionic, **Factories** are the most popular way to create and configure a **service**.

A **Factory** is basically just an object that you add properties to and return. When your controller uses this service, the properties are available to be used by the controller. This helps to reuse code in different parts of the app without having to write the same things over again.

We will be using a service called **CRM** to call the MobileFoundation adapters.

Here is an overview of how we have the app orgainzed:

| Code Reference     | html             | controller    | service                           | adapter      |
|:-------------------|:-----------------|:--------------|:----------------------------------|:-------------|
| crmService         | no html          | no controller | crm.js                            | CustomerInfo |
| loginView          | login.html  | login.js      | auth.js                          | UserLogin    |
| customerSearchView | search.html      | search.js     | calls crmService| -            |
| newCustomerView    | new-customer.html | new-customer.js   | calls crmService| -            |
| customerDetailView | view-customer.html    | view-customer.js   | calls crmService| -            |
| newVisitView       | new-visit.html    | new-visit.js      | calls crmService| -            |



## Lab Requirements

Before we start, do the following:
### NodeJS app is Running
first make sure that you start your **Nodejs backend server**. This is where your app will get the customer information from.
```bash
cd onPremSimulator/demo_server
npm install
node server.js
```

To test that your server is up and running, you should see a json response when you run:

```bash
curl -XGET http://localhost:8080/customers
```

### CRM Service

Let’s take a look at the CRM service where the MFP magic happens. We will be writing the functions that will call our CustomerInfo adapter that we made in the Adapters lab.

Open **crm.js** located in the **Lab/MotoScaffold/www/app/services** directory.

Copy and paste this code under the **“Add the sendRequest function here”** comment in the file.

```javascript
function sendRequest(path, method, payload) {
    var req = new WLResourceRequest(path, method);
    req.setHeader('Content-type', 'application/json');
    return req.send(payload).then(function (response) {
      return response.responseJSON;
    }, function (error) {
      return WLJQ.Deferred().reject(error.responseText).promise();
    });
  }
```
The **sendRequest** function takes the following parameters:

- **path**: the adapter endpoint
- **method**: the HTTP method we can to use (GET, POST, etc)
- **payload**: what we want to send to the endpoint

The **WLResourceRequest** class handles resource requests to the CustomerInfo adapter. It sets the Content-type in the header and sends the payload to the adapter which will return a JSON response.

## Customer Search
We will first need to write the search function in the CRM service that our app will use to call the adapter.

In **crm.js** add the following code in the **search** function under the comment **"Search function code goes here"**.

```javascript
return sendRequest('/adapters/CustomerInfo/customers/search',
 WLResourceRequest.POST, query)
```

Now that we have the CRM service sending requests to the adapter, we need to call the search function from the CRM service from the UI.

Open the **app/controllers/search.js** file and add the scope variables that we will use.

```js
$scope.results = [];
$scope.searchType = {
    name:""
  };
```

Inside the `$scope.searchPlate` function, add the following code:

```javascript

var search = {};
search[$scope.searchType.name] = this.query;

    CRM.search(search).then(function (results) {
      if(results.length === 0) {
        alert('No match found');
      } else {
        $scope.results = results;
        $scope.$apply();
      }
    }).fail(function (error) {
      alert(error);
    });
```
The **search** variable gets the type of search you want from the UI (name, plate, or vin) along with the search keywords you type in.

**CRM.search()** sends the search payload to the search function at the CRM service.


## Customer Details
When the search completes, you will see the response under the search bar. To view details about the customer, we want the user to be able to touch the results to take you to the customer detail screen. Let's implement how it works now.

**INSERT IMG HERE **

In **crm.js** add the following code in the **getCustomer** function under the comment **"View customer details code goes here"**.

```javascript
return sendRequest('/adapters/CustomerInfo/customers/' +
 id, WLResourceRequest.GET).then(function(customer){
        activeCustomer = customer;

        return activeCustomer;
      });
```

The **getCustomer** function takes an **id** parameter and sends it to the CustomerInfo adapter and returns that specific customer.

Open the **app/controllers/view-customer.js** file and add the **id** variable that gets the customer id parameter from the url that was called when we touched the search results.

```js
var id = $state.params.id;
```

Under the comment **"Call the CRM.getCustomer here"**, add the following code:

```js
CRM.getCustomer(id).then(function (customer) {
    $scope.customer = customer;
    $scope.$apply();
  }).fail(function (error) {
    alert(error);
  });
```

**CRM.getCustomer()** sends the **id** to the getCustomer function in the CRM service and returns the customer object.


## New Customer Visit
At the top right hand corner of the customer detail view, there is a plus button to add a new customer visit. We first need to return to the CRM service to call the adapter.

**INSERT IMG HERE **

In **crm.js** add the following code in the **newVisit** function under the comment **"New visit code goes here"**.

```javascript
return sendRequest('/adapters/CustomerInfo/customers/' + customerId + '/visits/',
  WLResourceRequest.POST,visit).then(function (response) {
          if (activeCustomer != null) {
            if (!(activeCustomer.visits instanceof Array)) {
              activeCustomer.visits = [];
            }
            activeCustomer.visits.push(visit);
          }
          return response;
        });
```

The **newVisit** function takes a **customerId** and **visit object** parameter and sends it to the CustomerInfo adapter and posts it to the customer.

Open the **app/controllers/new-visit.js** file and add the **visit** variable that we will save our new visit object in.

```js
$scope.visit = {
    date: new Date(),
    type: null,
    comment: null
  };
```

Under the comment **"Add newVisit code here"**, add the following code:

```js
CRM.newVisit(id, {date: $scope.visit.date,type: $scope.visit.type,
  comment:$scope.visit.comment}).then(function(response){
      alert('Added New Visit');
      $ionicHistory.goBack();
    }).fail(function(error){
      alert(error);
    });
```

**CRM.newVisit()** sends the **id** and the **visit object** to the newVisit function in the CRM service and then takes us back to the customer detail screen.

## New Customer
If a customer isn't in the database, you will first need to add them. On the search screen, you can touch the plus button in the upper right hand corner to add a new customer. You will be able to add their name, plate, make, model, and vin. Right now it doesn't do much so let's add some code.

**INSERT IMG HERE **

In **crm.js** add the following code in the **newCustomer** function under the comment **"Add new customer code goes here"**.

```javascript
return sendRequest('/adapters/CustomerInfo/customers/',
WLResourceRequest.POST, customer);
```

In the **new-customer.js**, add the following code under the comment **"Add newCustomer code here"**:

```js
CRM.newCustomer({name: this.name, plate: this.plate, make: this.make, model: this.model, vin: this.vin}).then(function (results) {
      if(results.length === 0) {
        alert('No match found');
      } else {
        $scope.newCustomer = results;
        $scope.$apply();
        $state.go('app.search');
      }
    }).fail(function (error) {
      alert(error);
    });
```

**CRM.newCustomer()** sends the customer details that you enter into the form as a **customer object** to the newCustomer function in the CRM service and then takes us back to the search screen.



You can see the **completed controllers** here: https://github.ibm.com/cord-americas/MotoCorpService/tree/master/MotoCorp/www/app/controllers

You can see the **completed services** here: https://github.ibm.com/cord-americas/MotoCorpService/tree/master/MotoCorp/www/app/services
